+++
title = "Rust 2019"
date = 2019-01-01
+++

Hi everyone. Thanks for arriving on my blog! This is a post about Rust 2019,
covering the last year, and looking forward to the next 3. With a special focus
on the next 12 months. I hope it comes in useful!

## Rust 2018
Unlike some folks, I'm no Rust veteran. I started casually tinkering with Rust
back in 2016, but only became serious about it in 2018.

2018 was the first time I had a chance to use [Rust
professionally](https://github.com/datrs), joined [a working
group](https://github.com/rust-clique), and then joined [another working
group](https://github.com/rust-net-web). And I guess I'm becoming involved with
[another working group](https://github.com/rustwasm/) now too. Woops.

It's hard to reflect on 2018 by itself. I can't comment on how different 2018
was as opposed to, say, 2017. But I feel like things have continuously changed &
improved, and am super excited about it!

### Nice things
It's hard to pick a favorite moment in 2018. I think the project has progressed
a lot, and it's been wonderful to see. I'm particularly impressed by how
designs, ideas, and reflections have been shared in the open
[[1]](http://smallcultfollowing.com/babysteps/blog/2018/06/20/proposal-for-a-staged-rfc-process/)
[[2]](https://boats.gitlab.io/blog/post/2018-04-06-async-await-final/)
[[3]](http://aturon.github.io/2018/05/25/listening-part-1/)
[[4]](https://ferrous-systems.com/blog/rust-analyzer-2019/).

I also love how Rust has become both more consistent *and* productive over the
least year. Features such as `impl Trait` and fewer duplicate lifetime
declarations. I feel [Llogic said it
best](https://llogiq.github.io/2018/04/03/corners.html) (paraphrased):

> Rust is an exercise in seeing how productive we can be without cutting
> corners.

### Not so nice things
Earlier this year several people engaged in a combination of misogyny and
doxxing at another person. It required several people to step in, but it got
dark.

At the end of the year [the new website](https://rust-lang.org) was met with
mixed reactions. Some positive. Some negative. And some unprofessional. I was
involved for part of the project, and drawing the ire of a mob of strangers
isn't fun (though luckily I was shielded from the worst of it - yay holiday).

Also the Net WG had a bit of trouble getting off the ground this year. It
[required a
reboot](https://github.com/rust-lang-nursery/wg-net/blob/master/meetings/2018-08-03.md),
in August. And even though good work has been done, it didn't operate nearly as
smoothly or consistently as the Embedded or WASM WGs have.

## Thinking ahead

In order to figure out what we should work on this year, it's probably most
useful to think about where we want the project to be 3 years from now. If we
want to make things happen in the (far) future, we have to start preparing to
make them possible.

Phew okay. So 2018 is behind us. Now what can we do in 2019 up until the next
major version, probably Rust 2021?

Let's start off with some general direction

There have been a few lesser moments though. Perhaps I went through a bit of a
honeymoon period when getting started, but after getting involved more heavily
it's pretty clear that 
